OTT: Over The Top platform => where content streams directly over the internet instead of 
	through traditional avenues such as television via satellite or cable television 
	connection, have taken over. People want more 
	options and more control over what they watch.
Examples: Netflix, Hulu, Disney+, ESPN+

OTT Technology:	
	1: Broadcasters upload video content to an OTT video hosting platform
	2: The video host transmits the data to remote servers via a content delivery network (CDN)
	3: Viewers select the content they want to stream on the user-facing video gallery
	4: The video player on the device pulls the video content from the CDN’s server with the internet 

Types of OTT:
	1: Live Streaming
	2: Video on Demand (VOD)

1. VOD: VOD is pre-recorded and can be accessed on-demand. They can pause, rewind, or fast-forward content. 
	VOD is perfect for a large number of entertainment and e-learning formats. VOD usually represent 
	high-quality content as they undergo an editing process before being released on OTT broadcast media platforms. 

	Buisness Models: 
		1. Subscription Video-on-Demand (SVOD)
		2. Transactional Video-on-Demand (TVOD) (pay per view)
		3. Advertising Video-on-Demand (AVOD)
	Advantages: 
		1. Watch at any time: users can  play content whenever they want. Unlike “linear” TV programming, which only 
			broadcasts in real time, VOD doesn’t rely on a set schedule.
		2. Control what they watch: users have more opportunities to pick and choose what they watch, compared to 
			traditional TV scheduling. 
		3.Use media controls: users can play, pause, rewind, fast forward, and completely control how they watch content.

2. Live Streaming: Live streams are recorded and streamed in real-time. Live streaming requires an extra step than VOD
	which is encoders.
	(Encoding) => The process by which raw video is converted into a digital format (compatible with online players and devices) 
	is known as encoding.

Types of Encoders: 
	1. Software Encoders
	2. Hardware Encoders

1. Software Encoders: It is a video conversion programs that run on a local computer. Software encoders have graphic 
	interfaces to manage the conversion process and allow control over elements such as bitrate and stream quality.

	Benefit: Less costly.

	Drawback:
		Main drawback is that software encoders are not dedicated devices. Computers are designed for multitasking and 
	perform multiple actions at once. They lack the robustness and speed of hardware devices since they cannot 
	dedicate their full resources to the live stream encoding process.
	
Example: 
	OBS Studio (Free, Open Source), Adobe Media Encoder, Telestream Wirecast (Best)

2. Hardware Encoders: they are standalone, dedicated devices that do NOT require a pc to run and whose only purpose is to encode 
	raw video into streaming data.

	Benefit: The primary benefit of hardware encoders is they process data incredibly fast. 
	Drawback: Costly
Example:
	TriCaster 8000, Teradek VidiU and Teradek Cubes
		
Transcoding:
	Transcode your live stream. Transcoding is the process of creating multiple copies of the same video feed simultaneously 
	using different bitstream/quality levels. 

	Benefit: This essential feature gives each viewer an optimized experience based on their internet speeds.

Nimble Streamer:
	Nimble Streamer provides wide feature set for live streaming via various protocols.

	Can be installed on any Operating system.
	It uses dynamic packiging not static packaging.
	




